>> Will Sentance: We saw that they
get bonus stuff, bonus functionality
available to them,
that are not properties directly on them.
But instead, we have the ability to go and
look up when we refer to something
like hasOwnProperty on obj,
to go and look up at this little
collection of functions here in this
built-in function object combo
going by the name of object.
>> Will Sentance: That has a probably
identical prototype in its object version
that is an object full of functions,
that all objects by default link to.
This is nice.
This is JavaScript,
using its own technology, to let itself
give its objects, and then its functions,
also, access to bonus functionality.
What this means is that we
can do the same thing for
our objects that we produce in our kind
of object-oriented application design.
We can say, okay,
this object user one will access to
this collection of functions, but that
collection of functions itself could have
access to another collection of functions
that we can keep going and checking up.
Meaning, we can kind of order the
distribution of our functions among our
objects in a really nicely structured way.
It's known as subclassing.
Hopefully, that's the next slide.
It's not there, there it is, subclassing.
It's known as subclassing.
A core aspect folk of object-oriented
paradigm, is the notion they call
it inheritance, passing knowledge or
work that's been previously written down.
So let's look at these, you've got user,
I meant to user create, well whatever.
User, then it's gonna have a name and
a score, and access,
not directly on the user one object, but
access to increased score functionality.
We saw that,
it's in our kinda bundle of functions.
We have increment and login.
But a lot of time in application design,
we always have users.
User1, user2, user3,
were all identical in what properties and
functionality apply to them.
Typically, we have kind of sub-users.
These sub-users might be
a moderator type of user.
It's very similar to a user,
it has a name, it has a score, but
it has the ability to
share a public message.
This is a moderator in our quiz game,
or a paid user.
Man, there's my first error in the slides.
The paid user has yes name, yes score,
but also has a property on any paid user.
For example paidUser1, they're just
like a user, they have name and score.
But they also have an account balance,
cuz they're a paid user.
So ignore the bonus score thing there,
account balance.
They therefore also have
functionality associated with them,
increase that balance.
But they also still have
a score properties,
they also still wanna have
the increase score functionality.
So how can we create paid
users like paidUser1,
but use the property development
that we did earlier.
The property creation process
that we did earlier, and
the functionality that we created earlier,
not have to redo it all over again.
But use that in creating our paid user.
And then add some bonus stuff.
This is known as inheritance, not redoing
all the work to create a paid user.
But using a lot of the work that was done
to create a regular user to create a paid
user, and then adding bonus stuff.
Okay, let's notice subclassing.
Subclassing is the creating
something which like a subversion,
a kind of slightly more
specific version of a user.
And that notion of grabbing
the previously done work,
to make it available to our paid
user is known as inheritance.
I do not like the term inheritance
used in JavaScript particularly,
cuz it makes you feel you're actually
taking that stuff from up here, and
sort of sticking it on this
object down here, you're not.
It's gonna be just like we did here,
that our function mode probably
too had access to these functions.
Had access to this function one level up.
Did they inherit these functions?
Seems a weird term to describe at run time
the ability of multiply by 2 to go and
look up to find stuff.
Is that really inheriting?
Feels more like you have
the right to go look up.
Find the term inheritance, an odd term, if
folk understand why I'm saying that, but
it is in the sense of the languages
the notion of getting access to stuff.
But when you inherit a property
genetically, you literally get it on you.
Well, that's not what's happening here.
We're just gonna get the right to go and
look up to get stuff.
So I don't like the term inheritance but
it is the standard term.